# Undergraduate Research Program (URP)
### Abstract

Steering angle prediction can be viewed as fundamentally a sequence problem. Meaning, previously predicted angles carry some useful information which can be used to predict current angle. Many previous models which tackle this problem rely primarily on the previous context vectors in case of the Recurrent Neural Networks and previous image embeddings with 3D convolutional neural networks. However, this work demonstrates that taking into account information of the previous steering angles greatly benefits the accuracy and stability of the current angle prediction. Moreover, it also shows that it sufficient to only look back for several frames, and there is no need to keep long term context vector. 

Recently, Transformer [1] models demonstrated incredible performance in the natural language understanding field and most importantly on the sequence generation tasks. Transformers outperform all other models on the sequence related tasks because of the self-attention mechanism, as it allows the model to concentrate on most important words within a specific context. Many advancements have been made since the first introduction of the transformer encoder-decoder model, most notably new method of self-supervised pre-training of large language models - Masked Language Modeling, which was introduced alongside BERT model [2]. With this method model is asked to predict special token [MASK], which masks some randomly selected word. By getting better at predicting masked word the transformer model gains some semantical and syntactical understanding of the language. 

This work proposes to treat steering angles as tokens, similar to language models, and introduces a transformer encoder-decoder inspired model, which predicts a current steering angle by attending to both previous angles and image frames using special [REG] token. Moreover, the proposed method not only shows great results, in terms of the stability and accuracy, on the prerecorded dataset of the RC car based on the Jetson Xavier NX [3], but is capable of driving the RC car in real-time on the left-turn biased track with hard ninety degree turns. 

